Newsletters: add 121 (2020-10-28) (#479)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2020-10-28-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #121'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2020/10/28/
name: 2020-10-28-newsletter
slug: 2020-10-28-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter describes the disclosure of two vulnerabilities
in LND and includes our regular sections with summaries of popular
questions and answers from the Bitcoin StackExchange, announcements of
releases and release candidates, and descriptions of changes to popular
Bitcoin infrastructure software.

## Action items

- **Ensure LND nodes upgraded to 0.11+:** as warned in [Newsletter
  #119][news119 lnd], a full disclosure of two vulnerabilities in old
  versions of LND has been made public.  Both vulnerabilities allow funds
  to be stolen from an affected LN node, so it is strongly recommended

>   to immediate upgrade to LND 0.11.0-beta or LND 0.11.1-beta.  Other LN

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to upgrade immediately to LND 0.11.0-beta or LND 0.11.1-beta.  Other LN
```

        signatures being equally valid on either the high side or low
        side of Bitcoin's elliptical curve (which, like all such curves,
        is symmetric).  Before segwit, inverting an *S*
        value---something anyone can do to any valid
        signature[^invert]---would change a transaction's txid, a
        problem known as *transaction malleability*.  After a major
        Bitcoin exchange lost funds by not properly handling mutated
        txids, [Bitcoin Core 0.11.1][] was released with a policy not to
        relay or mine transactions with *S* values on the high side of
        the curve---requiring anyone who wanted to exploit this form of
        malleability to buy or rent mining hashrate.  Even though segwit
        eliminates this type of txid malleability for transactions that
        spend only segwit UTXOs, the policy is still enforced for all
        transactions in order to prevent wasted bandwidth and other
        annoyances.

        During LND's development, two different methods of signature
        handling were implemented.  In most cases, LND properly ensured
        it only sent low-*S* signatures that could be relayed.  However,

>         Riard discovered that LND will accept a high-*S* value for a

Reviewer: Maintain past-perfect tense
```suggestion
        Riard discovered that LND would accept a high-*S* value for a
```

      by one of the nodes that was supposed to route it.

        Imagine Alice wants to pay Bob by routing a payment through
        Mallory:

            Alice → Mallory → Bob
              (planned route)

        Alice starts by giving Mallory an HTLC.  Mallory can't claim
        this money yet because she doesn't know the preimage for its
        hashlock.  However, Mallory does guess that Bob is the intended
        receiver---so he knows the preimage.  Instead of routing
        Alice's payment to Bob, Mallory creates a new minimal payment
        secured by the same hashlock and routes it back to herself
        through Bob and a third-party (Carol).

            Mallory → Bob → Carol → Mallory
                (second payment route)

        Even though Mallory created this second payment, she can't
        complete it because she doesn't know the preimage for the
        hashlock.  Instead, she closes her channel with Bob with the
        second payment still pending.  Because of a bug in LND, Bob will
        use the preimage meant for the payment from Alice to settle the
        payment routed through his node by Mallory.  This earns Bob the

>         routing fees Mallory paid but it also reveals the preimage to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        routing fees Mallory paid, but it also reveals the preimage to
```

>         the pending HTLC Alice tried routing though Mallory.  With the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        the pending HTLC Alice tried routing through Mallory.  With the
```

        preimage, Mallory is able to claim the full amount of that
        payment without routing any part of it to Bob.  Additionally,
        Alice receives cryptographic proof of payment even though
        the payment was actually stolen.

        LND's design tried to prevent this problem by storing payment
        preimages separately from routing preimages, but some code was
        added that queried both databases, creating the bug that Riard
        discovered.

        Both Fromknecht and Riard note that the attack could've been
        prevented if the [payment secrets feature][] added to all LN

>         implementations almost a year ago had become a mandatory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        implementations almost a year ago had become mandatory
```

        nonce included in the invoice.  If it had been enforced in this
        case, Mallory wouldn't know the payment secret and so couldn't
        have induced Bob to disclose it even with the buggy code.
        Fromknecht notes that, "the upcoming v0.12.0-beta release of lnd
        is likely to make payment secrets required by default.  We would
        welcome other implementations to do the same."

        A second set of emails from [Riard][riard6] and
        [Fromknecht][fromknecht6] describe this issue in detail.

## Selected Q&A from Bitcoin StackExchange

*[Bitcoin StackExchange][bitcoin.se] is one of the first places Optech
contributors look for answers to their questions---or when we have a
few spare moments to help curious or confused users.  In
this monthly feature, we highlight some of the top-voted questions and
answers posted since our last update.*

{% comment %}<!-- https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/search?tab=votes&q=created%3a1m..%20is%3aanswer -->{% endcomment %}
{% assign bse = "https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/" %}

- [Why is the Bitcoin Core wallet database moving from Berkeley DB to SQLite?]({{bse}}99620)

>   Michael Folkson references Andrew Chow's [blog post][achow wallet blog post]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Michael Folkson references Andrew Chow's [blog post][achow wallet blog post],
```

Reviewer 2: Added.

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

FIXME:harding to update tuesday (or delete if no releases/RCs)

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo],
[C-Lightning][c-lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LND][lnd repo],
[Rust-Lightning][rust-lightning repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo],
[Hardware Wallet Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Bitcoin Improvement Proposals
(BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

FIXME

- [Bitcoin Core #20198][] Show name, format and if uses descriptors in bitcoin-wallet tool FIXME:dongcarl

- [C-Lightning #4046][] libplugin: support for sending notifications.  FIXME:moneyball

- [C-Lightning #4139][] updates the `multifundchannel` RPC with a new
  `commitment_feerate` parameter that sets the initial feerate for
  commitment transactions in the channel.  Previously, the same feerate
  was used for both the funding transaction and initial commitment
  transactions.  This new option allows users to pay a higher feerate to

>   get a channel open quickly and then commit to a lower feerate when
>   they're using [anchor outputs][topic anchor outputs] to allow fee
>   bumping commitment transactions or they have another reason to be
>   willing to pay low commitment feerates.

Reviewer: This sentence feels a little awkward. Rearranged the placement of anchor outputs.
```suggestion
  get a channel open quickly and then commit to a lower feerate when
  they're willing to pay low commitment feerates to allow fee bumping
  commitment transactions such has when using
  [anchor outputs][topic anchor outputs].
```

- [Eclair #1575][] adds an `override-feerate-tolerance` setting that
  allows specifying how much your node will tolerate specific peers
  creating commitment transactions with feerates that are too low to get
  confirmed onchain quickly or too high to be reasonable.  The PR
  suggests a use for this might be maintaining low-feerate channels with

>   peers you trust not to cheat you.

Reviewer: Cutting down on some wordiness.
```suggestion
  trusted peers.
```

  to immediate upgrade to LND 0.11.0-beta or LND 0.11.1-beta.  Other LN
  implementations are not affected by the described vulnerabilities.

## News

- **Full disclosures of recent LND vulnerabilities:** two
  vulnerabilities affecting LND were fully disclosed this week with
  posts to the Lightning-Dev mailing list by both LND co-maintainer
  Conner Fromknecht and vulnerability discoverer Antoine Riard.

    - **[CVE-2020-26895][] acceptance of non-standard signatures:** in
      some cases, LND would accept a transaction signature that Bitcoin
      Core would not relay or mine by default.  When the transaction
      containing the unrelayable signature fails to confirm, a timelock
      eventually expires and the attacker is able to steal funds they
      previously paid to the vulnerable user.

        This is a consequence of the *S* value in Bitcoin ECDSA
        signatures being equally valid on either the high side or low
        side of Bitcoin's elliptical curve (which, like all such curves,
        is symmetric).  Before segwit, inverting an *S*
        value---something anyone can do to any valid
        signature[^invert]---would change a transaction's txid, a

>         problem known as *transaction malleability*.  After a major

Reviewer 3: "After a major Bitcoin exchange lost funds by not properly handling mutated txids" - was this definitely the immediate cause of making the low s standardness rule, or was it just a desire to remove unnecessary malleability vectors? I can't see anything in the release notes or PR (https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/6769) that mentions the major exchange.

Author: I think it was a strong motivation, although there was certainly a longstanding previous desire to remove malleability vectors.  From the author of that PR:

> I've always been happy to help out Mtgox with technical
issues. [...] Removing mallability entirely has
been a soft long term goal, and there were recently (as in today) some
posts about it— look at the list archives... though it won't happen
fast since all signers/wallets will need to be updated.  ([source](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2014-February/004311.html))

[Posted](https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/bitcoin-dev/2014-February/004305.html) a few hours before with the comment, "with the
recent related issues popping up, I finally got around to writing a
BIP about how we can get rid of transaction malleability over time", was the initial draft for BIP62, of which only allowing low-S signatures is [rule 5](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0062.mediawiki#new-rules).

And, for reference, here's part of MtGox's [statement](https://web.archive.org/web/20140210122955/https://www.mtgox.com/press_release_20140210.html)

> Bitcoin transactions are subject to a design issue that has been largely ignored, while known to at least a part of the Bitcoin core developers and mentioned on the BitcoinTalk forums. This defect, known as "transaction malleability" makes it possible for a third party to alter the hash of any freshly issued transaction without invalidating the signature, hence resulting in a similar transaction under a different hash.

        Bitcoin exchange lost funds by not properly handling mutated
        txids, [Bitcoin Core 0.11.1][] was released with a policy not to
        relay or mine transactions with *S* values on the high side of
        the curve---requiring anyone who wanted to exploit this form of

>         malleability to buy or rent mining hashrate.  Even though segwit

Reviewer 3: or collude with miners who aren't enforcing this standardness rule. Perhaps that falls under 'renting mining hashrate'

        Fromknecht notes that, "the upcoming v0.12.0-beta release of lnd
        is likely to make payment secrets required by default.  We would
        welcome other implementations to do the same."

        A second set of emails from [Riard][riard6] and
        [Fromknecht][fromknecht6] describe this issue in detail.

## Selected Q&A from Bitcoin StackExchange

*[Bitcoin StackExchange][bitcoin.se] is one of the first places Optech
contributors look for answers to their questions---or when we have a
few spare moments to help curious or confused users.  In
this monthly feature, we highlight some of the top-voted questions and
answers posted since our last update.*

{% comment %}<!-- https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/search?tab=votes&q=created%3a1m..%20is%3aanswer -->{% endcomment %}
{% assign bse = "https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/" %}

- [Why is the Bitcoin Core wallet database moving from Berkeley DB to SQLite?]({{bse}}99620)
  Michael Folkson references Andrew Chow's [blog post][achow wallet blog post]
  including pros of SQLite, cons of Berkeley DB, and a bigger picture [proposed
  timeline][wallet proposed timeline] to migrate from legacy to

>   [descriptor][topic descriptors] wallets.

Reviewer 2: @harding do you think a topic reference here make sense / add value?

Author: I thought about it, but I think the mention of "descriptor wallets" in both Folkson's answer and your summary is really just the name of the wallet redesign project rather than a development related to descriptors.  Does that seem reasonable?

Reviewer 2: Yep, reasonable. Resolving.
